---
layout: post
title: Warriors Notes
excerpt: ''
date: 
last_modified_at: 
categories: []
tags: []
comments: false

---
The Golden State Warriors are off to an interesting start to an interesting season. They have looked terrible for times and awesome during other stretches while having one of the least disrupted seasons thus far in terms of COVID. Putting aside questions of whether or not the NBA should even be playing right now, how are they looking so far and what might they do in the future, which means keeping the critiques of past roster decisions to a minimum.

They're sitting at 6-6 right now after last night's loss to Denver, which would put them in the play-in tournament if the season were to end today. However, they are sitting at [22nd in net rating](https://www.nba.com/stats/teams/advanced/?sort=NET_RATING&dir=-1) and aren't looking particularly deep after a couple of injuries. Let's start at the top of the roster though - Steph is generally doing Steph things, especially since Draymond returned. His shooting percentages are slightly down from his peak so far, but he has silenced the early critics after a few hot shooting nights. More than that, the rest of the team is starting to conform to his identity, which I think is due in large part to Draymond's return. Green provides another like minded player on the floor who is not afraid to get in anyone's face and has the credentials to back it up. He keeps both the ball and other players moving, which goes hand in hand with Curry's aesthetic.

The other players are gaining more comfort with this style, which is quite unlike most NBA and even college offenses. It's free flowing for the most part and Curry's talent forces his teammates to make snap decisions to screen, cut, or pass the ball in moments that simply don't happen elsewhere. There have already been many instances where Steph motions frantically for a player to set a screen for him to pop to the corner after giving the ball up, but the screen comes too late and Steph does not get open.

Kelly Oubre in particular has struggled with adjusting to this style of play, which is a bigger issue than his early shooting troubles. He's a fine shooter who will hit more threes and his defensive ability has been important to this team, but once he starts a drive, don't expect a productive pass out. It's more likely that he will throw up a shot regardless of the number of defenders near him or maybe dump the ball off, and that limited floor awareness limits his on ball ability and has been more glaring in this offense than in years past. All of that being said, I remain optimistic he will contribute positively to this team and be relied upon in the playoffs because of his mix of defense, rebounding, and shooting.

The bigger issue for the team's regular season hopes is the lack of a quality big man. James Wiseman has looked relatively good and is picking up details as the season progresses. His jumper is much sweeter than expected, though his free throw stroke casts some doubt on the jumper. However, it seems he has smaller than expected hands which hinder his ability to rebound and finish in traffic, particularly when forced to do so with only one hand. And for all the improvements, he is still a rookie and learning on the job. It seems Kerr understands this well enough considering he did not go back to him in the last six minutes of the second game against the Clippers after he put Wiseman back in at the end of the first game and watched their hopes quickly slip away. But it seems apparent that decision does not always rest with Kerr, which hints at larger organizational disconnect.

It seems clear that some in the organization are dedicated to Wiseman - his superior "fit" lead to him being [picked over LaMelo](https://basketball.realgm.com/wiretap/261189/Warriors-Viewed-LaMelo-Ball-As-More-Talented-James-Wiseman-As-Better-Fit) - and will do what's necessary to keep him starting and playing enough minutes on a team that could be a playoff threat depending on how the season breaks. This is despite already losing Marquese Chriss for the season and Alen Smailagic will be out at least several weeks, too, leaving their big man depth at Wiseman, Green, Looney, Paschall, and Toscano-Anderson. It is necessary for them to cut one of the injured players loose - likely Chriss as Smailagic has two more non-guaranteed years left on his deal and draft debt - and sign another big man such as Omari Spellman or DeWayne Dedmon.

However, the organization's priorities seem to lie somewhere besides [maximizing this roster](https://twitter.com/samesfandiari/status/1350486336856154115) and therefore the season. Sign another big man. Play Oubre as the 4, though that can be tough when Wiggins may also need to get minutes as the nominal 4. Hope Wiggins continues to play well. Thankfully they have been giving Paschall more minutes as the 5 man in the second unit, which suits him well. Small things like that are going to help this team succeed in the regular season and be a threat in the postseason, though that will be match-up dependent.

Wiggins may be the key for this team, both this season and moving forward, because of the team's salary cap situation. Next year the team will have Steph, Klay, Draymond, and Wiggins all under contract and all at increased amounts from this season. Although Oubre will be coming off of the books, the increases from those players and the rest of the team mean they'll have a net reduction of only $9M in salary and still be in the luxury tax. 

What does all of this have to do with Wiggins? He's the youngest and least "core" member of the high salary group and there's a good chance the Warriors will be adding a top five and top 20 pick in the 2021 draft. In my view, that means something has to give and Wiggins seems the most likely current player to be shipped out. The main variables are how Wiggins plays and where the draft picks fall. If Wiggins plays well and is considered something of an asset with only two years left on his deal, then perhaps they can trade him straight up for some rotation level players who are less burdensome salary cap wise. If he doesn't and ownership wants to lessen the tax bill, then the Warriors might have to attach the Timberwolves' 2021 first round pick to him. This is all complicated by the situation with the picks: the Timberwolves' pick is protected in slots one through three in the 2021 draft and unprotected in 2022, and their own 2021 first rounder is protected for slots one through 20 from the Thunder. There's certainly a chance the Warriors possess neither pick for the 2021 draft. If Wiggins plays well, then maybe ownership decides to commit to him as the bridge between eras. The point is his season and status within the organization could be a harbinger of things to come and is worth keeping tabs on heading into the draft.

***

What I'm Reading

* [Are Millenials Learning to Outsource their Adulthood?](https://www.thecut.com/2019/04/are-millennials-learning-to-outsource-their-adulthood.html)
* [Big Tech's Loudest Climate Advocate has a Fossil Fuel Problem](https://heated.world/p/big-techs-loudest-climate-advocate)